# REVIEW - Licenses, feature, feature-set

## Important Points Licenses, Feature, Feature-Set

1. License is must for using various features such as Routing Protocols, Port channels, Layer 3 SVI , HSRP, VRRP etc.
2. Show License OR Show License Brief  are the commands we can use to see licenses which are installed in your Nexus Device ( Same commands work on 5K AND 7K Platforms)
3. License file has extension as .lic 
4. License file is generated by Cisco using Host-ID which is the ID of your Hardware. It means license file is unique
5. While Installing License in to Nexus device-  License file must be copied either in USB, Bootflash or in external memory slot
6. Dir bootflash://  | include .lic     - This command can be used to search license file in Bootflash
7. To be able to Install License, we can use the command install license bootflash://sup-active/FILE.Lic   ( This command works from both  Privilege and Config mode )
8. If you do not have license, then we can use the option of Grace Period. Using this you can Test all of the features of Nexus Devices. However, it has some limitations too i.e. you can’t create multiple VDCs using Grace Period and moreover it is only for 120 Days
9. Command to use Grace-Period is “license grace-period”. Run it from Configuration Mode.
10. We need to enable feature of almost everything in NX-OS unlike IOS. e.g.    “Interface vlan 88” won’t work if “feature interface-vlan” is not enabled
11. To check all available features , Use the command   “Show feature”
12. Certain technologies like FEX, MPLS, FCOE, FabricPath are not features  So you have to enable these using feature-set
13. License should be present to use some of the features. E.g if license does not support OSPF then feature won’t work even if you use “ feature ospf”
14. First install license à Then enable feature

## Commands we learnt

- `Show License OR Show License Brief`  
- `Dir bootflash://  | include .lic`
- `install license bootflash://sup-active/FILE.Lic`
- `license grace-period`
- `Show feature`
- `Feature Ospf`

--------------------------------------------------------

# REVIEW - Licensing in Detail
## Important Points of “Licensing In Detail” chapter

1. Cisco generates License against every unique Host-ID. It means you can not install license of other nexus device in to your nexus device. Every License (.lic) file has embedded Host-ID. You can check the host-id using “ Show License Host-ID” command
2. Taking Backup of license file is very simple. If you want to copy ashish.lic file from bootflash://sup-active to your personal USB drive then use the command “ copy bootflash://sup-active/ashish.lic  usb:// ”
3. To get the list of all licenses being used in nexus device , use the command “ Show License Brief”
4. If license file has been installed and you do not have the copy Then you can extract it using the command “ Copy licenses bootflash:ashishbackup.tar”   . Note that extension being used is .tar  - not the .lic
5. Once .tar file is generated then you can move the file using “Copy bootflash:ashishbackup.tar usb:”   . Note :- file name ashishbackup.tar is just for testing purposes
6. If you want to install the license which is present in (.tar) file Then, you have to extract (.tar) file using “ tar extract bootflash:ashishbackup.tar “  . Now, you will see (ashishbackup.lic) file in bootflash.
7. To view license files in bootflash you can use the command “ dir bootflash: | include .lic “
8. To install  the license , Use the command “ Install license bootflash:License-File-Name.lic”
9. To uninstall the license use the command “ clear license filename.lic”  . DON’T RUN IN PRODUCTION unless YOU’RE VERY SURE
10. To update the license file , use the command “ update usb1:NEW-FILE-NAME.lic  EXISTING-FILE.lic “ . It is generally required when you want to extend the expiry date of license file. Instead of deleting/adding files, use the update option. You need to get new license file before updating existing license.
11. You can only change/add/update/delete license from “admin vdc or default vdc”
12. Above changes can be done by the user having the role of “network-admin” . You can verify the roles using “Show user-account”

## So we discussed below commands

- `Show license Host-ID`
- `copy bootflash://sup-active/ashish.lic  usb://`
- `Show License Brief`
- `Copy licenses bootflash:ashishbackup.tar`
- `Copy bootflash:ashishbackup.tar usb:`
- `tar extract bootflash:ashishbackup.tar`
- `dir bootflash: | include .lic`
- `Install license bootflash:License-File-Name.lic`
- `clear license filename.lic`
- `update usb1:NEW-FILE-NAME.lic  EXISTING-FILE.lic`
- `Show user-account`